# Syntax - Commands

MorfLess uses the following schematic commands in relation to their placement. They result in html elements being rendered on the page:

| Command | Use  | Placement |
| :-------| :----| :-------- |
| DEFAULT | Use the default for the placement tag as defined in settings.txt | All placements |
| NAV | Insert the nav bar | HEADER only |
| MENU | Insert a menu | All placements |
| QUOTE | Add a quote | All placements |
| CONTENT | Add content i.e. text/html | All placements |
| CONTENT_META |  Add the title, author, category, date modified and date created information to a post/page| MAIN only |
| POSTLIST | Add a list of posts or pages | All placements except HEADER |
| SECTION | Adds a general div element that wraps other commands creating a section | All placements except HEADER |
| INSERT | Add in schematic commands from another file | All placements |
| HEADER_INSERT | Add in schematic commands from another file | HEADER only |
| PAGINATION | Add next and previous links for pages and posts | MAIN only |
| SEARCHBAR| Add the search bar | All placements |
| STYLING | Add manual style remarks | All placements |

As as a reminder the placements are as follows (* means mandatory): 
- HEADER*
- BEFORE (Before main section)
- MAIN*
- AFTER
- SIDEBAR
- FOOTER*

There are also Addition commands:

| Command | Use  | Placement |
| :-------| :----| :-------- |
| HEADER_ADDITIONS | Adds text and scripts to the head | HEADER only |
| FOOTER_ADDITIONS | Adds text and scripts just before close body tag | FOOTER only |

## Schematic Tags

Each page or post (saved as a .post or .page) needs a minimum of information to be processed. The following schematic is that absolute basic that will allow html content to be created:

    ///META:
    title={ <something> }:
    url={ /<link>/<to>/<something>/ }:
    
    ///HEADER:
    %%DEFAULT::
    
    ///MAIN:
    %%DEFAULT::
    
    ///FOOTER:
    %%DEFAULT::
    
The tags "///xxxxx:" are **Schematic Tags** in that they represent the different sections of a html document, with the META section representing backend information that can be organised and indexed separately. 

In the example about there is one **Schematic Command** in the form "%%xxxxx::". MorfLess will parse this text by Schematic Tag then by Schematic Command. If the Schematic Command syntax is incorrect the command and all its subcommands or keywords will be ignored.

## Html structure

MorfLess (based on PoliMorf) is designed to use full-width styling by default. This means having no sidebar. Elements are then arranged as a set of “stripes” where in a particular element you have an outer and inner div then the div associated with the element. 

        <div class=“outer”>
	        <div class=“inner”>
		        <div class=“element-class”>
		        ….
		        </div>
	        </div>
        </div>

For the header, the classes would be “header-outer” and “header-inner” where the outer has no margins and spreads across the screen. The inner is responsively styled so that it maintains a certain fixed width across the screen.

If a sidebar is used, the Before, Main and After sections are wrapped in one outer and inner div. This also includes where Section commands are used.

## Schematic Commands 

Schematic commands (as shown in the table above) are called by prefixing with "%%" and ending with  "::". Spaces can be used. 

To add a custom class to the element generated by the schematic command, the "_CUSTOM:" postfix is added. For example:

        ///MAIN:
        %%CONTENT_CUSTOM: my-class ::
        <valid sub commands / keywords>
        
Will result in the following structure (for no Sidebar being present when the Main tag is called)


        <div class=“main-outer my-class”>
	      <div class=“main-inner my-class”>
		    <div class=“post my-class”>
		    ….
		    </div>
	      </div>
        </div>
        
Note: The CONTENT command generates a "post" class containing the content. Outer and Inner classes are grouped as header-inner/outer, main-inner/outer and footer-inner/outer. When a Sidebar is present the structure of Before. After and Main are wrapped as follows:

        <div class=“main-outer”>
	      <div class=“main-inner”>
            <div class="pm-main-with-sidebar-main">
		      <div class=“post my-class”>
		      ...
		      </div>
            </div>
            <div class="pm-main-with-sidebar-sidebar">
            ...
            </div>
	      </div>
        </div>
        
Only the element is given the custom class. The idea here is that because there is a Sidebar the structure is more defined so manipulation of elements is more specific. The Outer and Inner wrappers are shared by more than one element.

## Sub-schematic Commands and Keywords

For some schematic commands, sub-schematic commands and keywords are used whereas for other commands, only keywords are used. This is because some commands can be called as sub-commands so rather than repeat syntax a standard approach was used. For example the MENU command can be called as a schematic command or as a sub-schematic command within a BOX command.

Sub-schematic commands are written as:
            
        <subcommand>=[ <syntax> ]:
        
Keywords are written as:

        <keyword>={  <syntax> }: 
    
**IMPORTANT** Spaces can be used but _not between the identifiers_ e.g. a keyword and opening identifier must be joined as "keyword={"
    
    
